On This Page:
The F-1 or J-1visastamp in your passport is anentrydocument. It is permission to applyto enterthe United States in that visa category. Canadian citizens are not required to have a visa stamp in their passport to enter the U.S.
The visa expiration date is separate from your length of authorized stay in the U.S. The visa expiration date is also different from your I-20 or DS-2019 end date. Read more about the “period of authorized stay” and a review of “documents” in ourWhat is F-1 “Status” orWhat is J-1 “Status”section.
It is okay toremainin the U.S. after your F-1 or J-1 visa expires as long as:
The F-1 or J-1 visa is only necessary forre-entryto the U.S. if you leave. After your visa expires, you must apply for a new F-1 or J-1 visa the next time you travel internationally in orderto returnto the U.S.
Allowing the visa to expire while in the U.S. does not affect future visa applications nor eligibility for benefits like CPT or OPT.
(There are some exceptions to this visa validity rule regarding short trips to Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean islands, except for Cuba. Please check theAutomatic Visa Revalidationsection).
The ability to remain in the U.S. is also applicable if your visa has a limited number of entries that have been used, or if you have changed your nonimmigrant status while in the U.S. Review the next section,Automatic Visa Revalidation, for exceptions to the rule requiring a valid visa to enter the U.S.
If your visa is still valid, you will not need to renew your visa regardless of the length of time outside the U.S.
An exception to the rule requiring a valid, unexpired visa exists for students in F-1 and J-1 status who travel for fewer than 30 days solely to Canada or Mexico or islands in the Caribbean except Cuba. Your visa will be considered to be “extended” to the date of reentry, eliminating the need to obtain a new visa at a U.S. consulate before that particular re-entry. This procedure is known asautomatic visa revalidation.
Warning:if you apply for a new visa while in Canada, Mexico, or islands in the Caribbean, you will not be able to return to the U.S. if the visa application is denied. Also, citizens of Iran, Sudan, and Syria are not eligible for automatic visa revalidation.
The automatic visa revalidation benefit applies to students who changed status within the U.S. and have an F-1 or J-1 approval notice from USCIS. The previous visa type is considered to be “converted” to the F-1 or J-1 for that entry only.
You cannot apply for an F-1 or J-1 visa inside the U.S.Visas can only be obtained outside of the U.S. at aU.S. Embassy or Consulate.
It is advisable to apply for the visa at a U.S. consulate in your home country, unless circumstances or travel plans make this impossible. It may be possible to apply for a visa at a U.S. consulate in a country other than your home country. This is called a “third country national (TCN)” application. Not all U.S. consulates accept TCN applications, and some allow TCN applications for limited situations; check with individual consulates, including those in Canada and Mexico, for TCN application policies.
It can be risky to apply in a country other than your home country.For instance, if you apply for a new visa in Canada and encounter delays, you must remain in Canada for the length of the processing. You will not be able to reenter the U.S. until the new visa is approved.
Allow ample time for the visa application process. There are always risks of processing delays.Winter and spring breaks are very short, and not ideal for renewing visas.
U.S. consulates require in-person interviews for most first-time visa applicants. An interview may be waived if you are applying to renew your visa. You are encouraged to schedule the visa interview appointment as early as possible. The U.S. Department of State maintains an excellent website on thevisa application process, and you should study it carefully. You can also find information about how long it will take to get your visa. Students applying for initial-entry F-1 and F-2 visas may be issued the visas up to 120 days before the academic program start date as noted on the I-20. J-1 and J-2 exchange visitors may be issued visas at any time before the beginning of their programs.
Visa processing delays may occur for a variety of reasons,with enhanced security reviews based on your field of study, country of origin, and the likelihood of returning home after completion of studies. Certain disciplines are considered “sensitive” by the State Department and are put on the Technology Alert List (TAL). The current TAL is not public information. Consult an ISS adviser for more information about potential visa delays.
Required documents when applying for a visa:
Additional documents may be required when applying for a visa:
Additional things to consider when applying for a visa:
If you plan to study abroad during your UW degree program, carefully review the entry visa requirements for the country where you will study. You might need a valid F-1 or J-1 U.S. visa to apply for an entry visa to another country while you are a UW student. It is not possible to apply for a new F-1/J-1 visa inside the U.S. If your current U.S. student visa is expired, you might need to travel outside of the U.S. to obtain a new F-1 or J-1 visa before you can apply for a visa to another country. Allow enough time for the required visa applications when planning to study abroad. You should also consult ISS regarding study abroad plans to determine if and how they will affect your F-1 or J-1 status.
2 days ago
3 days ago
1 week ago
© 2024 University of Washington  |  Seattle, WA