Official website of the Department of Homeland Security
On Nov. 18, 2024, the Institute of International Education (IIE) released its annual Open Doors Report...
Based on the student type and education level you selected, below is an overview of important information for you to know. This guide includes information about every step in the international student process, from researching a program to graduating and departing the United States.
If you want to study in the United States, the first step is to research the school or program that most interests you. The United States has several postsecondary options for F-1 international students, including community colleges and undergraduate- and graduate-level programs. Visit thePrograms of Studypage to learn more about these options.

Traveling to the United States requires that you take certain steps before your arrival. It is also necessary to be prepared and organized when you arrive at the U.S. port of entry. Additional travel information can be found on theGetting to the United Statespage.

While studying in the United States, it is important to maintain your status which relates to the purpose or reason for why you want to come to the United States. As an F-1 student, your primary purpose for coming to the United States is to complete a full course of study at an SEVP-certified school. This means you must not take any action that detracts from fulfilling this purpose and follow the regulations associated with studying in the United States. Additional information can be found on theMaintaining Your Statuspage.

While studying in the United States, you can apply for certain benefits. These student benefits are not granted by SEVP and require students to apply to other U.S. government agencies to receive them.

If you want to change the purpose of your visit while in the United States, you (or in some cases, your employer) must file a request with USCIS on the appropriate form before your authorized stay expires. USCIS recommends that you apply as soon as you determine that you need to change to a different nonimmigrant category. If USCIS denies your application, be prepared to leave the United States when your current status expires. Additional information can be found on theChange of Statuspage.

If you have maintained your status and finished a program of study or your authorized period of post-completion OPT, and you do not transfer to another SEVP-certified school, you have a 60-day grace period to depart from the United States. Failure to depart within this grace period could adversely impact your ability to re-enter the United States under a different nonimmigrant or immigrant classification.