We will reject H-1B or H-1B1 (HSC) petitions received at a USCIS service center on or after April 1, 2024. There will beno grace periodprovided.
Beginning on April 1, 2024, all paper-filed Form I-129 petitions requesting H-1B1 (HSC), or H-1B classification, including those with a concurrent Form I-907, Request for Premium Processing Service, and those with concurrently filed Form I-539 and/or Form I-765, must be filed at a USCIS lockbox facility. If you are filing Form I-129 alone or with Form I-907, you may also file online. On March 25, USCIS launched online filing of Form I-129 and associated Form I-907 for non-cap H-1B petitions. On April 1, USCIS will begin accepting online filing for H-1B cap petitions and associated Forms I-907 for petitioners whose registrations have been selected. You can find the lockbox filing addresses for paper filed forms on ourForm I-129 Direct Filing Addressespage.
On Feb. 28, 2024, we launched newUSCIS organizational accountsthat will allow multiple people within a company and their legal representatives to collaborate and prepare H-1B registrations, H-1B petitions, and associated requests for premium processing.
Petitioners will continue to have the option of filing a paper Form I-129 H-1B petition and any associated Form I-907 if they prefer. However, during the initial launch of organizational accounts, users will not be able to link paper-filed Forms I-129 and I-907 to their online accounts.
Alert: H-1B petitions can be portable from one job to another. For information about petitioning for a beneficiary in valid H-1B nonimmigrant status and when they may begin new H-1B employment, regardless of whether they are currently employed or have been terminated, click on “Changing Employers or Employment Terms with the Same Employer (Portability)” below. For more information, including options for H-1B beneficiaries who have been terminated, visitOptions for Nonimmigrant Workers Following Termination of Employment.
This nonimmigrant classification applies to people who wish to perform services in a specialty occupation, services of exceptional merit and ability relating to a Department of Defense (DOD) cooperative research and development project, or services as a fashion model of distinguished merit or ability.
The occupation requires:
The position must also meet one of the following criteria to qualify as a specialty occupation:
For you to qualify to perform services in a specialty occupation you must meet one of the following criteria:
Have education, specialized training, and/or progressively responsible experience that is equivalent to the completion of a U.S. bachelor’s or higher degree in the specialty occupation, and have recognition of expertise in the specialty through progressively responsible positions directly related to the specialty.**
Yes. The prospective petitioner must include a Form ETA-9035/9035E, Labor Condition Application (LCA) certified by the Department of Labor (DOL), with the Form I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker. See theDOL’s Office of Foreign Labor Certification.
For more information see theInformation for Employers and Employeespage.
H-1B2
DOD Researcher and Development Project Worker
The job must require a bachelor’s or higher degree, or its equivalent, to perform the duties. The petition must be accompanied by:
To be eligible for this classification you must have a bachelor's or higher degree or its equivalent in the occupational field in which you will be performing services. This requirement can be met based on one of the following criteria:
H-1B3
Fashion Model
The position/services must require a fashion model of prominence.
To be eligible for this visa category you must be a fashion model of distinguished merit and ability.
*For more information, see 8 CFR §214.2(h)(4)(iii)(A). “Normally,” “common,” and “usually” are interpreted based on their plain language, dictionary definitions. They are not interpreted to mean “always.”
**For more information see 8 CFR §214.2(h)(4)(iii)(C).
Some professions require an H-1B beneficiary to hold a state or local license authorizing the beneficiary to fully practice the specialty occupation.
If an occupation in the state of intended employment requires such a license, an H-1B beneficiary seeking classification in that occupation generally must have that license before the petition is approved, rather than at the time of filing the petition. See8 CFR 214.2(h)(4)(v)(A)–(B). When a license is required, but there is no evidence of the beneficiary holding one, USCIS will generally issue a request for evidence of the required license.
In 2020, we implemented an electronic registration process for the H-1B cap. A cap-subject H-1B petition will not be considered to be properly filed unless it is based on a valid, selected registration for the same beneficiary and the appropriate fiscal year, unless the registration requirement is suspended. For more information about the H-1B registration process, visit ourH-1B Electronic Registration Processwebpage.
Step 1:(only required for specialty occupation and fashion model petitions): Employer/Agent Submits LCA to DOL for Certification.The employer/agent must apply for and receive DOL certification of an LCA. For further information regarding LCA requirements and DOL's process, see theForeign Labor Certification, Department of Laborpage.
Step 2:Employer/Agent Submits Completed Form I-129 to USCIS.The employer/agent should file Form I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker, at the correct location or online.  Please see ourI-129 Direct Filing Chartpage. The DOL-certified LCA should be submitted with the Form I-129 (only for specialty occupation and fashion models). See theinstructions to the Form I-129(PDF, 987.49 KB)for additional filing requirements.
Step 3:Prospective Workers Outside the United States Apply for Visa and/or Admission.Once the Form I-129 petition has been approved, the prospective H-1B worker who is outside the United States may apply with the U.S. Department of State (DOS) at a U.S. embassy or consulate abroad for an H-1B visa (if a visa is required). Regardless of whether a visa is required, the prospective H-1B worker must then apply to U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) for admission to the United States in H-1B classification.
Prospective specialty occupation and distinguished fashion model employers/agents must obtain a certification of an LCA from the DOL. This application includes certain attestations, a violation of which can result in fines, bars on sponsoring nonimmigrant or immigrant petitions, and other sanctions to the employer/agent. The application requires the employer/agent to attest that it will comply with the following labor requirements:
As an H-1B specialty occupation worker, you may be admitted for a period of up to 3 years. Your time period may be extended, but generally cannot go beyond a total of 6 years.
However, you may be eligible for an H-1B extension beyond the sixth year under8 CFR 214.2(h)(13)(iii)(E)if you are the beneficiary of an approved immigrant visa petition under the EB-1, EB-2, or EB-3 classifications, and are eligible to be granted that immigrant status but for application of the per country or worldwide limitations on immigrant visas. Petitioners must demonstrate the visa is not available as of the date they file an H-1B petition with USCIS. We may grant extensions on this basis in up to 3-year increments until we make a final decision to revoke the approval of the immigrant visa petition or to approve or deny your application for an immigrant visa or application to adjust status to lawful permanent residence.
Alternatively, under8 CFR 214.2(h)(13)(iii)(D), you may be eligible for an H-1B extension beyond the sixth year if at least 365 days have passed since a labor certification was filed with the Department of Labor on your behalf (if such certification is required) or an immigrant visa petition was filed with USCIS on your behalf.
You are ineligible for this extension beyond the sixth year if you fail to file an adjustment of status application or apply for an immigrant visa within 1 year of an immigrant visa being available. If the accrual of such 1-year period is interrupted by the unavailability of an immigrant visa, you will have a new 1-year period after an immigrant visa again becomes immediately available, during which you generally must file an adjustment of status application or apply for an immigrant visa. We may, in our discretion, excuse a failure to file an adjustment of status application or apply for an immigrant visa within 1 year of an immigrant visa being available if your employer establishes that the failure to apply was due to circumstances beyond your control. When considering whether to excuse a failure to timely file within 1 year, we will look at the totality of the circumstances, which may include:
We may excuse a failure to timely file in cases of both voluntary and involuntary change of employment when considering the totality of the circumstances. We may grant extensions under this provision in up to 1-year increments until the approved permanent labor certification expires or  a final decision has been made to:
Your employer will be liable for the reasonable costs of your return transportation if they terminate your employment before the end of your period of authorized stay. Your employer is not responsible for the costs of your return transportation if you voluntarily resign from your position. For more information, please seeOptions for Nonimmigrant Workers Following Termination of Employment.
The H-1B classification has an annual numerical limit (cap) of 65,000 new statuses/visas each fiscal year. An additional 20,000 petitions filed on behalf of beneficiaries with a master’s degree or higher from a U.S. institution of higher education are exempt from the cap. Additionally, H-1B workers who are petitioned for or employed at an institution of higher education or its affiliated or related nonprofit entities, a nonprofit research organization, or a government research organization, are not subject to this numerical cap.
For further information about the numerical cap, see ourH-1B Cap Season page.
Changing Employers
When can I begin working for a new H-1B employer if I change employers?
Will I still have employment authorization if I change employers?
Can I move from cap-exempt to cap-subject employment?
Changing Employment Terms with the Same Employer
What if I want to start new employment or change employment terms with my current employer?
Your spouse and unmarried children under 21 years of age may seek admission in the H-4 nonimmigrant classification. Certain H-4 dependent spouses of H-1B nonimmigrants can file Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, as long as the H-1B nonimmigrant has already started the process of seeking employment-based lawful permanent resident status. Please visit ourEmployment Authorization for Certain H-4 Dependent Spousespage to learn more.
USCIS.gov
An official website of theU.S. Department of Homeland Security